README.md, before:

# Notes App: A full-stack web application for managing personal notes

This project is a simple yet functional where you can create, edit, and delete notes. 
Plus, there's validation on both the UI and the backend


## Key features:
- Create and store personal notes
- View a list of all notes
- Edit existing notes
- Delete unwanted notes

## Tech Stack:
- Frontend: React.js with TypeScript
- Backend: Node.js with Express
- Database: PostgreSQL

## Prerequisites
- Node.js, npm, 
- PostgreSQL server

## Installation & Usage 
### Set up SSH for GitHub (if not already done)
- Check for existing SSH keys , then place the keys in ~/.ssh dir
- Test the SSH connection : `ssh -T git@github.com`
- Clone the repo : `git clone git@github.com:monsotal/Notes-app-monolithic.git`

### Environment Variables
- Create a `.env` file in the `notes-app-server` directory
- Add necessary variables 
     `DATABASE_URL=postgresql://<user>:<password>@<ip>:5432/notes_db?schema=public`

### Database Setup
- Ensure PostgreSQL is installed running and available
- Synchronize your Prisma schema with the database schema:
     `cd notes-app-server/`
      `npx prisma db push`


### Run the backend server 
- `cd notes-app-server`
- Install dependencies: `npm install`
- run the server: `npm start`

### start the front-end development server:
- `cd notes-app-ui`
- Install dependencies: `npm install`
- run the server: `npm start`


## Project Structure
The application is structured with separate frontend (notes-app-ui) and backend (notes-app-server) directories,
 allowing for independent development and easy deployment.

Commit message:

Updated README with instruction to replace api endpoints in app code -since react &node.js running on different ports we need to use absoulute path when running locally

README.md, after:

# Notes App: A full-stack web application for managing personal notes

This project is a simple yet functional where you can create, edit, and delete notes. 
Plus, there's validation on both the UI and the backend


## Key features:
- Create and store personal notes
- View a list of all notes
- Edit existing notes
- Delete unwanted notes

## Tech Stack:
- Frontend: React.js with TypeScript
- Backend: Node.js with Express
- Database: PostgreSQL




## How to prepare your local environment for debugging / development
### Set up SSH for GitHub (if not already done)
- Check for existing SSH keys , then place the keys in ~/.ssh dir
- Test the SSH connection : `ssh -T git@github.com`
- Clone the repo : `git clone git@github.com:monsotal/Notes-app-monolithic.git`

### Prerequisites
- Node.js, npm, 
- PostgreSQL server

### Environment Variables
- Create a `.env` file in the `notes-app-server` directory
- Add necessary variables 
     `DATABASE_URL=postgresql://<user>:<password>@<ip>:5432/notes_db?schema=public`

### Database Setup
- Ensure PostgreSQL is installed running and available
- Synchronize your Prisma schema with the database schema:
     `cd notes-app-server/`
      `npx prisma db push`


### Run the backend server 
- `cd notes-app-server`
- Install dependencies: `npm install`
- run the server: `npm start`

### start the front-end development server:

- `cd notes-app-ui`
- Install dependencies: `npm install`
- run the server: `npm start`
- In MainApp.tsx , replace API endpoints to absolute paths
  This is because React App and Node.js server runs on different ports, therefore instead of using '/api/notes'you may use 'http://localhost:5000/api/notes' 
  (Unlike In production with Nginx, where the backend API is configured in the Nginx config, you can use relative paths like /api/notes directly in your code. Nginx handles the routing and API requests based on its configuration, so absolute URLs are not needed.


## Project Structure
The application is structured with separate frontend (notes-app-ui) and backend (notes-app-server) directories,
 allowing for independent development and easy deployment.
